Changelog 2023.10 (#21)
ubermag/ubermag.github.io: source/changelog.rst

Changelog
=========

in progress (0.70.0 or date-based versioning?)
====================

Breaking changes in ``discretisedfield``
----------------------------------------

``discretisedfield`` has been refactored to support scalar and (n-dimensional)
vector fields on n-dimensional meshes. As part of this refactoring several
inconsistencies and ambiguities have been removed. These changes break existing
code! The following summary lists all user-facing changes (removed, renamed, added functionality).

The shape of the domain (i.e. the shape of the region/mesh) is now referred to
as ``dim``, the shape of the field values as ``vdim`` (vector/value dimension).

``Region``

>   - Modified: scaling a region is now done with the method ``scale``, the option to scale a region by multiply it with a number has been removed.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Modified: scaling a region is now done with the method ``scale``, the option to scale a region by multiply it with a number has been removed. Scaling can optionally be done in-place.
```

>   - New: regions can be translated in space with ``translate``.

Author: ```suggestion
  - New: regions can be translated in space with ``translate``.  Translating can optionally be done in-place.
```

  - Modified: a new method ``allclose`` checks if two regions are the same within numerical accuracy, the operator now ``==`` checks for exact equality.

>   - Renamed: the operator ``|`` has been renamed to ``facing_surface``

Author: ```suggestion
  - Modified: the operator ``|`` has been replaced with the new method ``facing_surface``
```

  - Removed: properties ``p1`` and ``p2``, use ``pmin`` and ``pmax``
  - Changed: the return type of points (e.g. ``pmin``, ``pmax``, ``centre``) is now a ``numpy.ndarray``

>   - Changed: ``unit`` has been renamed to ``units`` and is a tuple to supports different units along different directions (only used as labels, not for calculations).

Author: ```suggestion
  - Changed: ``unit`` has been renamed to ``units`` and is a tuple to supports different units along different directions (only used as labels on plots, not for calculations).
```

  - New: property ``ndim`` to get the number of dimensions of the space.
  - New: property ``dims``, names of the spatial dimensions.
  - New: method ``rotate90`` to perform 90 degree rotations of the region.

``Mesh``
  - Modified: a new method ``allclose`` checks if two regions are the same
    within numerical accuracy, the operator now ``==`` checks for exact
    equality.
  - Modified: inconsistent behaviour of ``mesh[subregion]``; this operator will
    now always use closed intervals, i.e. the returned submesh is now always
    inclusive of endpoints.

>   - Renamed: the operator ``|`` is now a method called ``is_aligned``.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Modified: the operator ``|`` has been replaced with a new method called ``is_aligned``.
```

  - Removed: ``axispoints`` (was deprecated), use ``points`` instead.
  - Removed: ``neighbours``

>   - Renamed and modified: ``plane`` has been replaced with a new ``sel`` method. Refer to the documentation for more details.

Author: add link to documentation

  - Removed: ``attributes``

>   - Removed: ``dS`` (used for integrals) because a new syntax for integrals is used

Author: link to documentation?

  - Renamed: ``midpoints`` to ``points``
  - Modified: new method ``coordinate_field`` that was previous part of the ``Field`` class.
  - New: ``scale`` and ``translate`` similar to the ``Region`` class.
  - New: method ``rotate90`` to perform 90 degree rotations of the mesh.

``Field``
  - Modified: getting the value at a point (``field(...)``) now returns a ``numpy.ndarray``.
  - Modified: only field values are returned when iterating over a field.

>   - Modified: ``coordinate_field`` is now part of the ``Mesh`` class.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Removed: ``coordinate_field`` is now part of the ``Mesh`` class.
```

>   - Renamed and modified: ``derivative`` -> ``diff``; now supports holes inside the field, refer to the documentation for details.

Author: add link to documentation

>   - Modified: new integration syntax, refer to the documentation for details.

Author: add link to documentation

  - Renamed: ``fromfile`` -> ``from_file``

>   - Renamed and modified: ``plane`` has been replaced with a new ``sel`` method. Refer to the documentation for more details.

Author: add link to documentation

  - Removed: ``project`` has been removed, use ``mean`` with the ``axis`` argument instead.
  - Renamed: ``write`` -> ``to_file``
  - Modified: ``angle`` now takes a vector as reference and does not anymore require sliced fields.
  - Renamed: ``dim`` -> ``nvdim`` to avoid ambiguities, the new name is also required as an argument when creating a field.
  - Renamed: ``components`` -> ``vdims``
  - Renamed: ``units`` -> ``unit``
  - Removed: ``value``, to update field values use the new method ``update_field_values`` instead, to read data use the ``array`` property.

>   - Removed: ``zero`` class method; omit the ``value`` argument to create a field filled with zeros.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Removed: ``zero`` class method; omit the ``value`` argument to create a field filled with zeros (was already supported before).
```

>   - New: method ``resample`` to compute field values on a new mesh; the nearest points will be used, interpolation is not supported.

Author: link to documentation?

>   - New: property ``valid`` to define parts that contain material; this can be set to the field norm on init using the optional ``valid='norm'`` argument.

Author: link to documentation

>   - Modified: new hdf5 format to store all field information (e.g. subregions were missing before).

Author: link to format specification

  - New: property ``dims``, names of the spatial dimensions

``Mesh``
  - Modified: a new method ``allclose`` checks if two regions are the same
    within numerical accuracy, the operator now ``==`` checks for exact
    equality.
  - Modified: inconsistent behaviour of ``mesh[subregion]``; this operator will
    now always use closed intervals, i.e. the returned submesh is now always
    inclusive of endpoints.
  - Renamed: the operator ``|`` is now a method called ``is_aligned``.
  - Removed: ``axispoints`` (was deprecated), use ``points`` instead.
  - Removed: ``neighbours``
  - Renamed and modified: ``plane`` has been replaced with a new ``sel`` method. Refer to the documentation for more details.
  - Removed: ``attributes``
  - Removed: ``dS`` (used for integrals) because a new syntax for integrals is used
  - Renamed: ``midpoints`` to ``points``
  - Modified: new method ``coordinate_field`` that was previous part of the ``Field`` class.
  - New: ``scale`` and ``translate`` similar to the ``Region`` class.

``Field``
  - Modified: getting the value at a point (``field(...)``) now returns a ``numpy.ndarray``.

>   - Modified: only field values are returned when iterating over a field.

Reviewer: add more details please

Author: add link to documentation

  - Renamed and modified: ``plane`` has been replaced with a new ``sel`` method. Refer to the documentation for more details.
  - Removed: ``project`` has been removed, use ``mean`` with the ``axis`` argument instead.
  - Renamed: ``write`` -> ``to_file``
  - Modified: ``angle`` now takes a vector as reference and does not anymore require sliced fields.
  - Renamed: ``dim`` -> ``nvdim`` to avoid ambiguities, the new name is also required as an argument when creating a field.
  - Renamed: ``components`` -> ``vdims``
  - Renamed: ``units`` -> ``unit``
  - Removed: ``value``, to update field values use the new method ``update_field_values`` instead, to read data use the ``array`` property.
  - Removed: ``zero`` class method; omit the ``value`` argument to create a field filled with zeros.
  - New: method ``resample`` to compute field values on a new mesh; the nearest points will be used, interpolation is not supported.
  - New: property ``valid`` to define parts that contain material; this can be set to the field norm on init using the optional ``valid='norm'`` argument.
  - Modified: new hdf5 format to store all field information (e.g. subregions were missing before).

> 

Reviewer: integration is not mentioned

Author: Done
